= => errship

The static error pages Rails comes with are nice for getting started - you can't
break them, no matter what. But without your layout and navigation wrapped around
them, they create a frustrating trap for your users.

The obvious solution is to render your layout into the static file, but what happens
when you make a change?

Worse, what if you run a network of many Rails applications? Should they share one
error page style? Should they all have their own?

You could hire your nephew to keep them all up to date... or you can use Errship.

Errship is a Rails 3.1 engine for rendering error pages inside your layout. It supports
i18n, custom exceptions, and Airbrake (Hoptoad) error tracking.

You can also use the flashback method to set an error message and redirect :back safely - if
a RedirectBackError is raised, the user is dropped off at the nearest error page and given 
the flash message anyway.

== Installation

Add this to your Gemfile
    gem 'errship', '~> 2.1.3'

Add this to your ApplicationController
    class ApplicationController < ActionController::Base
      include Errship::Rescuers
      include Errship::ActiveRecord::Rescuers # or replace 'ActiveRecord' with MongoMapper, or Mongoid

Errship is ready to go! To test it out in development, you'll need to set

    config.consider_all_requests_local = false

in your config/environments/development.rb file. Just don't forget to change it back
when you want useful debugging output again instead!

Alternatively, simply point your browser to /error or /not_found to get a taste.

== Configuration

Errship renders all error pages with a HTTP status of 200 by default. This is
done to ensure that the error page is rendered if the web server is configured
to intercept errors (e.g. proxy_intercept_errors for nginx). If you want to
have the correct status codes for your errors, add the following to an
initializer:

    Errship.status_code_success = false

== I18n

If you want to edit the text that is rendered, add the following to your config/locales/*.yml

    en:
      errship:
        '404':
          title: 'This page does not exist.'
          description: 'It could have moved, or someone (maybe you!) mistyped the URL.'
        '500':
          title: 'An error has occurred.'
          description: 'This has been reported to our development team. Thank you!'

...and so forth, for any error code you like.

== Custom Rescuers

If you want errship to rescue errors from your own custom exception class, you need
to add a custom rescuer in your ApplicationController, like so:

    # Render the 404 page
    rescue_from MyException::SomethingMissing, :with => :render_404_error

    # Render the 500 page
    rescue_from MyException::SomethingWentWrong, :with => :render_error

To customize the error for a particular controller or exception class, add a rescuer
like this one:

    rescue_from ActiveRecord::RecordNotFound, :with => ->(e){ render_404_error e, 'monkeys' }

and then add your text for that scope to config/locales/*.yml

    en:
      errship:
        '404':
          title: 'This page does not exist.'
          description: 'It could have moved, or someone (maybe you!) mistyped the URL.'
          monkeys:
            title: 'They must have escaped'
            description: 'This is now a monkey free zone.'
            

The following methods are provided:

* render_error(exception, errship_scope = false) # Render the 500 page
* render_404_error(exception = nil, errship_scope = false) # Render the 404 page
* flashback(error_message) # Set the flash and redirect back (RedirectBackError-safe)

If Airbrake is installed, every rescuer will report the exception, except for 404.

== Changelog

2.2.0
  - Preserve correct status codes by default (Rescuers no longer force a 200 status)

2.1.3
  - Conditionally loading rescuers to check for specific loading ORM
  
2.1.2
  - Remove explicit Rake version dependency for 1.8.7 compatibility 
  
2.1.1
  - Gemspec update
  
2.1.0
  - Removes unnecessary dependency on HAML (using ERB instead)

2.0.1
  - Added tests for ActiveRecord, Mongoid and MongoMapper rescuers
  - Fixed Mongoid module
   
2.0.0
  - Breaks out ORM error handling into submodules. Not backwards compatible.

1.1.0
  - Adds option to specify a custom errship_scope to use with I18n, allowing each 
    rescuer to customize the messages displayed.

1.0.0
  - Upgrade to Rails 3.1 to share error page assets between applications on the asset pipeline.
  - Supports Airbrake as well as HoptoadNotifier
  - Errors are rendered directly into your layout
  - i18n support
  - No default styles - blends seamlessly into its host layout.

== Contributing to errship
 
* Check out the latest master to make sure the feature hasn't been implemented or the bug hasn't been fixed yet
* Check out the issue tracker to make sure someone already hasn't requested it and/or contributed it
* Fork the project
* Start a feature/bugfix branch
* Commit and push until you are happy with your contribution
* Make sure to add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a future version unintentionally.
* Please try not to mess with the Rakefile, version, or history. If you want to have your own version, or is otherwise necessary, that is fine, but please isolate to its own commit so I can cherry-pick around it.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2011 Logan Koester. See LICENSE.txt for
further details.

